♪ Opening Song ♪
A mushi master?
Yes. My name is Ginko.
I hear you have
premonitions in your dreams.
Your reputation is
well-known in these parts.
But I'm here because
there might be something
wrong with these dreams.
Just what do you mean by that?
[GINKO] It's likely that the
mushi are involved in this.
Some of them live
within dreams...
...and can show you
premonitions of the future.
They will continue to
breed and multiply.
This medicine should be able
to keep them under control.
[GINKO] How often do
these prophetic dreams
turn out to be true?
I'd say about...
one or two in ten.
[GINKO] In time, that number
will increase to four or five.
When it does, you should
begin taking the medicine.
If you take it too soon,
it could be toxic.
But know that if you
don't take it at all,
you'll remain in
your dreams forever.
[GINKO] What's important is
the balance between the two.
So please, be sure to take it.
[GINKO] I'll stop by again
before the medicine runs out.
[GINKO]
So, until then...
...pleasant dreams.
[NARRATOR]
You should never converse with
someone talking
in their sleep.
Those are the words from
the land of Utopia.
[footsteps]
It hasn't even been a year
since the last time I was here.
[GINKO]
So what happened?
What's going on?
[JIN]
So you've come back...
...Mushi Master.
I've been waiting.
There's something that I've
been wanting to ask you.
So are you alone here?
[GINKO]
I saw the village...
Don't tell me that the--
[JIN]
Yes.
That's right.
I'll tell you what
happened here...
Everything.
[JIN gasps]
Not again...
All right.
Come on...
[JIN]
Huh?
Amazing!
[JIN]
It's a water vein!
[JIN] With this, we could
extend the fields.
[digging]
[MAN 1]
Hey! We found it!
[MAN 2 chuckles] Another one
of Jin's dreams came true!
Quickly! Go tell the others!
The farmers gave us
this to say thank you.
There's so much!
[KINU]
It makes me feel bad.
[JIN]
I know what you mean.
But since I can't begin to
provide a meal like that
from what I'm paid
to sharpen swords.
[MAYU]
Hm?
I'm very grateful.
Myrtle berries!
[KINU]
But... Jin.
The number of dreams you
have that are coming true...
They're increasing, like the
mushi master said they would.
You mean...
You believed what he said?
That the mushi are
causing my dreams?
I don't know, really...
Maybe.
But, Jin...
What if what everything
he was telling us is true?
All right, Dear.
I'll take the medicine.
Good.
Thank you.
[gong clanging]
[MAN 3]
The western cliff collapsed!
[VILLAGERS murmuring]
[MAN 4]
Thank you so much!
If it wasn't for your
prediction, we'd be dead!
[WOMAN 1] I don't know how
we can ever thank you enough!
Kinu?
Sometimes having these
dreams scares me.
Whenever one of my
premonitions comes true,
I can't help but to feel that
I somehow caused
these things happen.
Don't be silly.
[MAN 5]
Hey! Jin!
This is my way of saying thanks
for your help the other day!
Here!
[JIN]
Ah. Thank you.
Hey! Do you think you could
have a good dream for me?
Sorry.
I can't say.
[laughs]
He doesn't control them!
They just come to him!
[MAN 6 chuckles] Well, I'll look
forward to your next one.
Thank you.
[footsteps]
Don't worry about it so much.
I'm sure the only reason
you have those dreams
is so you can help other people.
Look around.
Everyone is happy.
And it's all because of you.
There's no reason
to be afraid.
You're right.
I'm sorry.
[JIN] At least,
that's what I told my wife.
But I still felt an
apprehension about the dreams.
These visions...
So I secretly began to take
the medicine on my own.
[JIN]
But then...
[MAN 2]
It's a tsunami!
[KINU sobs]
[JIN gasps]
Mayu...!
She was down in the harbor!
No...
No... Not my little girl...
[JIN]
I didn't dream any of this!
[MAN 3] How could he not
have seen this coming?!
[KINU]
Mayu...
[JIN] It's all because
I took this damn medicine!
That's why I couldn't see
what would happen to Mayu!
[JIN]
I stopped taking the medicine.
Soon after...
The number of premonitions
I had increased.
And they were becoming
more vivid, more accurate...
Jin, look at this.
More gifts left out
in front of our house.
[KINU]
Please, Dear...
You need to cheer up.
[JIN]
Then, one day...
[JIN gasps]
[yelps]
[panting]
[KINU groans]
Did you have a dream?
You're sweating.
Was the dream bad?
Tell me!
No...
I'm just not feeling
well, that's all.
There was no dream.
[JIN]
The next day...
[JIN gasps]
Kinu...
[JIN]
It was the same illness
I had seen in my dream
the night before.
A green mold that would
appear at the fingertips
and spread over the entire body,
causing it to crumble
apart like dirt.
After that...
...I was the only
one left in the village.
[JIN] You said your
name was Ginko, right?
Well, after that dream
became real, Ginko...
That's when it came to me...
[JIN] When you stopped by to
visit me that first time...
You had deceived me.
What lurks inside my mind are
not the mushi that give
one prophetic dreams...
They are the mushi that
bring one's dreams
out of the mind
to infect reality.
[JIN]
That green mold disease...
It first began to spread
through the people
that were closest to me.
It took my wife,
then my neighbors,
and after that, it spread
to the houses across the way.
[JIN]
There, before my very eyes,
the exact same scene that
had been in my dreams
became a reality.
All of my premonitions,
everything I had
seen in my mind,
were all events that were
created through my dreams.
That's the truth.
And you knew it!
So why did you lie to me?!
Because this is a mushi that you
can never be completely rid of.
Once the parasite
gets inside of you,
it stays with you for
the rest of your life.
Your only option is
to co-exist with it.
Tell me... If you had
known the truth,
do you honestly believe
you could have handled
the burden of knowing
what your dreams can do?
No...
But then none of this
would have happened!
Why didn't you just let me die?!
They're all dead because of me!
Dead!
[chokes, sobs]
[GINKO]
I'm sorry...
Now that it's come to this,
I'll do everything I can
to find a way to rid
you of the mushi.
Please... Go on living.
The yumeno no awai, meaning
"The Field and Space of Dream,"
are a type of mushi
that normally
reside in the dreams
of their host.
But on occasion, they
come out of these dreams,
becoming the medium that brings
what the host sees into reality.
That's why...
not all of your dreams
were prophetic in nature.
As they multiply, their
chances of escape increase.
[GINKO] And the scale and range
of what they can make real
becomes greater as well.
But still, the mushi are
weak while in this state,
and will disappear if
exposed to sunlight.
It's not known why they
come out into our world.
But somewhere there is a pathway
connecting dreams with reality,
on which only the
mushi can travel.
It is said that this
is where they sleep
while the host is awake.
[GINKO]
If I can find this pathway,
I might be able
to do something.
[sighs]
But I've never
heard of a case like this
on such a grand scale before.
The medicine alone won't
be able to stop it.
Maybe if I increase
the dosage...
Hm?
[thud]
[gasps]
Jin!
[JIN groaning]
The medicine! You took it all?!
Hang on! I'll get the antidote!
Don't bother!
[GINKO gasps]
[JIN]
Leave me be...
I can't go on...
Just let me die...
[shallow breathing]
[GINKO]
His eyes are moving.
He's beginning to dream...
Forgive me...
[GINKO]
Sleep talking?
You are not to blame.
And neither are the mushi...
The both of you were just
carrying on with your lives.
This wasn't anyone's fault.
[GINKO]
Don't die.
You've done nothing wrong.
Are those... wild geese?
[GINKO gasps]
He is sleep talking.
This is useless.
Where are you, anyway?
Just hurry up and
come back to reality.
A field... of reeds...
[GINKO gasps]
He answered me!
[ringing]
[GINKO groans]
That ringing...!
What is it?!
[cawing]
[GINKO]
What is this?
[GINKO] Our conversation just
connected his dream to reality!
I see now.
He thought these were geese.
[GINKO] It's a giant
flock of yumeno no awai!
[footsteps]
Daddy!
Welcome home!
Mayu!
[KINU]
We missed you!
[JIN gasps]
Kinu!
[JIN cries]
[JIN]
I'm sorry...
[MAYU]
Huh?
[JIN]
i'm so sorry...
I killed you both...
I failed...
I know you must hate me...
for what I've done to you.
It's all right...
None of this is
your fault, Dear.
[KINU]
You've done nothing wrong...
[JIN gasps]
Is there... someone here?
[JIN]
It's me!
What's that in the panel?
[JIN]
Fire...?
It's hot...
Someone...
[JIN] Is that my dream being
reflected onto the screen?
[JIN]
The fire...
It moved from the
dream onto my pillow!
[GINKO]
Now I get it!
It's there, too!
Wake up!
[JIN groans]
[GINKO]
I'll get water!
[JIN groans]
[gasps]
[JIN] The dream came into
reality through the pillow!
[GINKO]
But somewhere there is a pathway
connecting dreams with reality,
on which only the
mushi can travel.
It is said that this
is where they sleep
while the host is awake...
[JIN groans]
That's it... Now I know
where you've been hiding.
[GINKO gasps]
Damned mushi!
Now you're going to pay!
No! Stop it!
[panting]
[chuckles]
[chokes]
[groans]
[JIN]
But...
But why?
[JIN]
Why did it cut me, too?
[sighs]
His body seems to be responding
well to the treatment.
With some rest, he's
going to be just fine.
[GINKO sighs]
[JIN] Did you know it
would turn out like this?
Look at me.
All I did was cut the pillow...
The word "pillow"...
Do you know where the origin
of that word comes from?
It means the
"storeroom of the soul."
For one third of your life,
your pillow cradles your head.
Perhaps that is how
the idea came about
that the pillow is
where the soul rests.
The pillow was the nest
of the yumeno no awai,
and served as the pathway
connecting dreams and reality.
[GINKO]
I thought that if you cut it,
the thing that would
be lost would be you.
[NARRATOR] The "storeroom
of the soul" is a place that
lies between dreams and reality.
If one does not walk this path,
one can never see Utopia...
[GINKO] Thereafter, they say
that Jin began working
as a blade sharpener again.
He was skilled at what he did,
and his reputation
was well-known.
But for some reason,
he slowly lost his soul.
Sometimes he would
wander out into the road,
waving his sword around.
[GINKO]
In the end, he stabbed himself.
[GINKO] People said that the
man was afraid of sleeping...
That when he slept,
he felt his soul would
slip away into the unknown.
[GINKO] They also say that
after the man cut his pillow,
he never once had another dream.
[NARRATOR]
Next: "The Traveling Swamp."